---
layout: post
title: What Instagram Video Can Offer Brands
---

*This post was originally published at [On Strategy](http://cargocollective.com/joychen/What-Instagram-Video-Can-Offer-Brands).*

-----

Instagram’s recent video feature release on June 20th has sparked debates among users about whether it can overshadow Twitter’s Vine in the near future. What’s so great about it? How about a comfortable 15 seconds to work with, 13 video filters to give your masterpiece the B&W treatment or the classic Instagram-indie look, and the option to delete the last snippet you shot? While I too am terribly excited about another platform that can publish even more cute videos of my puppy, I’m most curious about how these new developments will change the playing field for brands. <!-- more -->

Launched just this past January, Vine has already built up an audience of creative early adopters who embrace the challenges of the limited time frame and inability to edit shots. Imposed constraints forces brands to creatively circumnavigate them, leading to some of the most eye-catching 6-second stop motion films the world has ever seen. Plus, only a handful of brands command the Vine space – off the top of my head, Lowe’s, Urban Outfitters, and GE are making huge waves – meaning lower competition for newer entrants up hoping to reach the most influential creatives. This very different target audience begs the question, is Instagram even competing directly with Vine? 

With 13 new filters, cinematic stabilization features, and a community of 130 million users, Instagram is again delivering quick, simplified aestheticization for brands entertaining the masses. The longer video length would be just enough room for more complicated storytelling: brands will likely use it for more comprehensive how-tos, responses to customers’ questions, sports events recaps, movie trailers and music previews, or simply more professional looking film sequences. 

Since several brands such as Nike and Starbucks have already built a strong presence on Instagram’s photo platform, the new video feature will feel more like a natural extension and the preferred alternative to building up an entirely new following on Vine. Democratizing content creation works for both the brand’s community managers and for audience members already using Instagram for photos, who will find the simplicity and accessibility of Instagram video convenient for crafting their own responses in a two-way conversation. I could see this becoming very effective for, say, sponsored contests that involve fan participation. 

It also doesn’t seem to be any accident that Instagram’s new 15-second videos are just as long as a television commercial, potentially making content recycling attractive to brands. Rather than creating original content bespoke to the new mediums, advertisers and brands may opt for the easier option of trimming down a 30-second television spot instead. I believe repurposed advertising would inhibit the opportunity for actual creativity; the good news is that advertisers cannot yet import a video from a camera roll, so they must film it within the app. 

Though most users will probably continue to make videos on both platforms, Instagram is quickly opening up new territory for brands and advertisers to generate impressions and engage with consumers. It remains to be seen how advertisers will fare learning this new feature and strategizing accordingly. It will be crucial for brands to understand that migrating to Instagram Video doesn't simply mean repeating what they did in Vine, and brands already using Instagram should be wary that users may respond differently to videos than to photos. And, as short-form videos eclipse photos as the most common commodity, brands must work even harder to hold the ever waning attention span of consumers. 